This is a "plugin" for the Video Disk Recorder (VDR).

Written by:                  Andi Kellner
                             Lars von Wedel <vonwedel@web.de>
                             Ralf Klueber <r@lf-klueber.de>, 

Project's homepage:          URL

Latest version available at: URL

See the file COPYING for license information.


PLEASE!

This is a difficult plugin. It's nice but difficult.
With difficult I mean, that due to the underlying
database, many more sources of error can occur as
opposed to other plugins.

Take some time to carefully read these instructions.
Please provide feedback to the authors whenever you
think, these instructions are not appropriate, wrong,
or useless in any other sense.

1 DESCRIPTION

The muggle plugin provides a database link for VDR so that selection of media becomes more flexible.
Prerequisites are describedin Section 2, Notes on Compilation are in Section 3. Before using the plugin, 
you need to import your media into the database (cf. Section 4). The configuration of VDR and startup
parameters are descibed in Section 5.

2 PREREQUISITES

The plugin is written for VDR 1.2.6. In addition, the following pieces of 
software are required:

- mySQL server (tested with 4.0.18) (Debian packages mysql-server, mysql-client)
- mySQL client libraries (Debian package libmysqlclient-dev)
- libmad (for mp3 decoding) (Debian package libmad0-dev)
- libtag (for ID3 tag reading/writing) (Debian package libtag1-dev)

The server need not be on the same machine as the VDR. Also, music tracks can reside somewhere else,
if they are available through a remote filesystem (NFS, Samba). However, in this case you should
know what you are doing in terms of networking and security issues.


3 INSTALLING 

Unpack the sources in PLUGINS/src below your VDR directory (i.e. where all your other plugins are.
For example (paths and version numbers may vary)

   cd /usr/local/src/VDR/PLUGINS/src
   tar xvjf muggle-0.1.7.tar.bz2

Establish a symlink as you would for other plugins:

   ln -s muggle-0.1.7 muggle

Within the VDR main directory (e.g. /usr/local/src/VDR) issue a 

   make plugins

This should build all relevant stuff. If you have difficulties, check that required libraries are 
in the library directories stated in the muggle Makefile.


4 IMPORT

The import is done in two steps: First, a database is created and initialized with proper data structures (so-called schema).
Then, these data structures are filled from the ID3 tags of your music tracks.

4.1 Setup Database

This step can be done on the database server or on some other client machine.
Within the directory scripts there are a few helpful files to support setting
up the database. Change into that directory:#

   cd scripts

The first step is to essentially create the database:

   mysql -u root -p < createdb.mysql

You will need to enter your root password that you choose during mySQL installation.
Next, we generate the database tables (schema):

   mysql -u root -p < createtables.mysql 

Further, initial data about known languages, genres, sources and musictypes is fed into the database:
Execute these commands on a single line, the \ for the linebreak ist just for presentation purposes here.

   echo " use GiantDisc; load data local infile 'genres.txt' into table genre;" | \
      mysql -u root -p  --local-infile=1

   echo "use GiantDisc; load data local infile 'languages.txt' into table language;" | \
      mysql -u root --local-infile=1

   echo "use GiantDisc; load data local infile 'musictypes.txt' into table language;" | \
      mysql -u root --local-infile=1

   echo "use GiantDisc; load data local infile '$SCRIPTDIR/sources.txt' into table language;" | \
      mysql -u root --local-infile=1

You can find the sequence of commands in the file scripts/make-empty-db. Use it at your own luck.

Please note, that the scripts and commands above are quite basic in terms of security (e.g. no
password set for the vdr user, no proper selection of privileges). You may want to spend some
time reading the mySQL documentation in order to set up a proper configuration. Especially when
VDR and mySQL will run on different machines you'll have to invest some time into mySQL
networking and access rights.

If you want your database name to be different than 'GiantDisc' you will need to adapt the name
in the files createdb.mysql and createtables.mysql and in the commands above. Now your database
is ready for import.

4.2 Import Music

The next step is to feed all music information into the database. There is a small tool called 'mugglei'
in the muggle main directory. It connects to the database, evaluates ID3 tags from a file, and writes
the tags into the database. It runs on just one file, so you need some more effort using the Unix command
'find' to take all files into consideration. 

For this step, it is helpful, that all music files are somehow gathered under a toplevel directory.
It does not matter whether there are further subdirectories which organize files into genres, artists,
album or whatever. If this is not the case, you may want to take some time to do this. Read on before
you start

You probably do not want to import all files in one go: albums on which tracks of various artists are found
(samplers) require different treatment than files of just one artist. What I did: all samplers are collected
below a special subdirectory "Assorted". Import is then run separately for those tracks.

For now, let's assume your music tracks are located in /home/music and samplers are in /home/music/Assorted.

First, import the files in Assorted. This requires the flag -a to mugglei. Further flags -h, -n, -u, and -p
specify database host, name, user and password, respectively. The filename to import is given using the -f
directive. Using 'find' you can import all files for assorted albums with a command like:

   find Assorted -name '*' -type f -exec mugglei -a -f {} \;

For reasons of simplicity, the arguments -h, -n, -u and -p are not shown. You will need them if the default
values do not apply or modify the source code accordingly (beginning of function main). Also, make sure 
that either mugglei is on your path or specify an absolute or relative path in the above command line.

For "regular" albums, the following command may be helpful:

   find * -path 'Assorted' -prune -o -type f -exec mugglei -f {} \;

It is important that you perform all these steps from the same location so the filenames are relative to
exactly the same directory (e.g. /home/music in the example case).

Speed should not be an issue: on my machine, it takes about 10 secs to run the import of 60 assorted
albums with more than 600 tracks. Further 1200 tracks or so require 20 more secs. This depends on machine
configuration, of course.

5 MUGGLE CONFIGURATION

Muggle uses a small set of command line parameters in order to control the interaction with the mySQL server.
Let's look at an example:

  -P'muggle -h localhost -u vdr -n GiantDisc -t/home/music'

The -h parameter specifies the database host, -u specifies the user, -n is the database name. The scripts mentioned
above do not make use of passwords, but restrict database acccess on a server basis. 

The -t argument specifies the top level directory of the music files. On a local installation, this is the
directory in which you executed the import steps (Chapter 4.2).

6 USING MUGGLE

Quick version: select Muggle on the OSD, browse titles (using up/down and Ok), add them using the red button.
Then turn to the playlist view using yellow and start play using again the red function key.



